[MUSIC PLAYING]
[BOOM]
SURMA: Now that the
naming is finally settled,
it's time we talked
about flatMap.
flatMap is the newest of the
functional array methods,
and browsers are
just implementing it.
But I expect it won't
be long until it's
available in stable releases.
So let's get an early
look at this new gem.
flatMap is similar
to map insofar
that it applies a function to
every element in the array.
However, if this function
returns an array itself,
each element of that array will
be an element of the resulting
array.
That means that flat
mapping an array
can result in a new
array with more elements
than you started with.
So for example,
let's say you want
to show your user the name
of the items they ordered
in the past but
your database only
has a list of orders,
each containing
potentially multiple items.
flatMap comes to the rescue.
We use map to pick the names
of the items from every order,
and flatMap takes care
of flattening all of this
into one big list of item names.
Quite handy and
concise, isn't it?
So if you found
this interesting,
I did some more videos on
functional array methods.
So if you haven't
seen those, you
should go back and
watch them now.
And if you want to stay
up to date with the most
recent Supercharged, you should
subscribe to this channel.